README.md, before:

[![test](https://github.com/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack/graph/badge.svg?token=IGRIRBHZ3U)](https://codecov.io/gh/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack)
[![code style - Black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![types - Mypy](https://img.shields.io/badge/types-Mypy-blue.svg)](https://github.com/python/mypy)
[![Python 3.9](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%20|%203.10%20|%203.11-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-390/)

# Better BM25 In-Memory Document Store

An in-memory document store is a great starting point for prototyping and debugging before migrating to production-grade stores like Elasticsearch. However, [the original implementation](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack/blob/0dbb98c0a017b499560521aa93186d0640aab659/haystack/document_stores/in_memory/document_store.py#L148) of BM25 retrieval recreates an inverse index for the entire document store __on every new search__. Furthermore, the tokenization method is primitive, only permitting splitters based on regular expressions, making localization and domain adaptation challenging. Therefore, this implementation is a slight upgrade to the default BM25 in-memory document store by implementing incremental index update and incorporation of [SentencePiece](https://github.com/google/sentencepiece) statistical sub-word tokenization.

## Installation

```bash
pip install bbm25-haystack
```

## Usage

The initializer takes [three BM25+ hyperparameters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25), namely `k1`, `b`, and `delta`, and one path to a trained SentencePiece tokenizer `.model` file. All parameters are optional. The default tokenizer is directly copied from [this SentencePiece test tokenizer](https://github.com/google/sentencepiece/blob/master/python/test/test_model.model) with a vocab size of 1000.

```python
from haystack import Document
from bbm25_haystack import BetterBM25DocumentStore, BetterBM25Retriever


document_store = BetterBM25DocumentStore()
document_store.write_documents([
   Document(content="There are over 7,000 languages spoken around the world today."),
   Document(content="Elephants have been observed to behave in a way that indicates a high level of self-awareness, such as recognizing themselves in mirrors."),
   Document(content="In certain parts of the world, like the Maldives, Puerto Rico, and San Diego, you can witness the phenomenon of bioluminescent waves.")
])

retriever = BetterBM25Retriever(document_store)
retriever.run(query="How many languages are spoken around the world today?")
```

## Filtering Logic and Caveats

The filtering logic is slightly different from the default implementation shipped with Haystack, but this logic may be subject to changes, and I am open to different suggestions. Please find comments and implementation details in [`filters.py`](./src/bbm25_haystack/filters.py). TL;DR:

- Comparison with `None`, i.e., missing values, involved will always return `False`, no matter the document attribute value or filter value.
- Comparison with `DataFrame` is always prohibited to reduce surprises.
- No implicit `datetime` conversion from string values.

These differences lead to a few caveats. Firstly, some test cases are overridden to take into account the different expectations. However, this means that passed, non-overridden tests may not be faithful, i.e., the filters behave in the same way as the old implementation while different behaviors are expected. Further, the negation logic needs to be considered again because `False` can now issue from both input check and the actual comparisons. But I think having input processing and comparisons separated makes the filtering behavior more transparent.

## License

`bbm25-haystack` is distributed under the terms of the [Apache-2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0.html) license.

Commit message:

refactoring; support of haystack filtering logic; use llama2 tokenizer by default

README.md, after:

[![test](https://github.com/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack/graph/badge.svg?token=IGRIRBHZ3U)](https://codecov.io/gh/Guest400123064/bbm25-haystack)
[![code style - Black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![types - Mypy](https://img.shields.io/badge/types-Mypy-blue.svg)](https://github.com/python/mypy)
[![Python 3.9](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%20|%203.10%20|%203.11-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-390/)

# Better BM25 In-Memory Document Store

An in-memory document store is a great starting point for prototyping and debugging before migrating to production-grade stores like Elasticsearch. However, [the original implementation](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack/blob/0dbb98c0a017b499560521aa93186d0640aab659/haystack/document_stores/in_memory/document_store.py#L148) of BM25 retrieval recreates an inverse index for the entire document store __on every new search__. Furthermore, the tokenization method is primitive, only permitting splitters based on regular expressions, making localization and domain adaptation challenging. Therefore, this implementation is a slight upgrade to the default BM25 in-memory document store by implementing incremental index update and incorporation of [SentencePiece](https://github.com/google/sentencepiece) statistical sub-word tokenization.

## Installation

```bash
pip install bbm25-haystack
```

## Usage

The initializer takes [three BM25+ hyperparameters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25), namely `k1`, `b`, and `delta`, one path to a trained SentencePiece tokenizer `.model` file, and a filtering logic flag ([see below](#filtering-logic)). All parameters are optional. The default tokenizer is directly copied from [LLaMA-2-7B-32K tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/togethercomputer/LLaMA-2-7B-32K/blob/main/tokenizer.model) with a vocab size of 32,000.

```python
from haystack import Document
from bbm25_haystack import BetterBM25DocumentStore, BetterBM25Retriever


document_store = BetterBM25DocumentStore()
document_store.write_documents([
   Document(content="There are over 7,000 languages spoken around the world today."),
   Document(content="Elephants have been observed to behave in a way that indicates a high level of self-awareness, such as recognizing themselves in mirrors."),
   Document(content="In certain parts of the world, like the Maldives, Puerto Rico, and San Diego, you can witness the phenomenon of bioluminescent waves.")
])

retriever = BetterBM25Retriever(document_store)
retriever.run(query="How many languages are spoken around the world today?")
```

## Filtering Logic

The current document store uses `document_matches_filter` shipped with Haystack to perform filtering by default, which is the same as `InMemoryDocumentStore` except that it is DOES NOT support legacy operator names.

However, there is also an alternative filtering logic shipped with this implementation that is more conservative (and unstable at this point). To use this alternative logic, initialize the document store with `haystack_filter_logic=False` Please find comments and implementation details in [`filters.py`](./src/bbm25_haystack/filters.py). TL;DR:

- Comparison with `None`, i.e., missing values, involved will always return `False`, no matter the document attribute value or filter value.
- Comparison with `DataFrame` is always prohibited to reduce surprises.
- No implicit `datetime` conversion from string values.

These differences lead to a few caveats. Firstly, some test cases are overridden to take into account the different expectations. However, this means that passed, non-overridden tests may not be faithful, i.e., the filters behave in the same way as the old implementation while different behaviors are expected. Further, the negation logic needs to be considered again because `False` can now issue from both input check and the actual comparisons. But I think having input processing and comparisons separated makes the filtering behavior more transparent.

## License

`bbm25-haystack` is distributed under the terms of the [Apache-2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0.html) license.
